# About #


Stratio Connector Streaming is a crossdata connector interface implementation for stratio-streaming.

## Requirements ##

Install [Stratio Streaming] (http://docs.openstratio.org/getting-started.html#stratio-streaming) and run it. 
[Crossdata] (https://github.com/Stratio/crossdata) is needed to interact with this connector.

## Compile and build Stratio Connector Streaming ##

To automatically build execute the following command:

```
   > mvn clean package -Ppackage
```

## Running the Stratio Connector Streaming ##

To run Connector Streaming execute:

```
   > ./target/stratio-connector-streaming/bin/stratio-connector-streaming
```


## Install with redistributable package ##

RPM and DEB packages are autogenerated, execute this commands to install:

RPM Package:

    > rpm -i target/stratio-connector-streaming-<version>.rpm

DEB Package:

    > dpkg -i target/stratio-connector-streaming-<version>.deb

Now to start/stop the connector:

    > service connector-streaming start
    > service connector-streaming stop




## How to use Connector Streaming ##

A complete tutorial is available [here](_doc/FirstSteps.md). The basic commands are described below.

 1. Start [crossdata-server and then crossdata-shell](https://github.com/Stratio/crossdata).  
 2. Start Streaming Connector as it is explained before
 3. In crossdata-shell:
    
    Attach cluster on that datastore. The datastore name must be the same as the defined in the Datastore manifest.
    
      ```
         xdsh:user>  ATTACH CLUSTER <cluster_name> ON DATASTORE <datastore_name> WITH OPTIONS {'KafkaServer': '[<kafkaHost_1,kafkaHost_2...kafkaHost_n>]', 'KafkaPort': '[<kafkaPort_1, kafkaPort_2...kafkaPort_n>]', 'zooKeeperServer':'[<zooKeeperHost_1,zooKeeperHost_2...zooKeeperHost_n>]','zooKeeperPort':'[<zooKeeperPort_1,zooKeeperPort_2...zooKeeperPort_n>]'};
      ```
      
    Attach the connector to the previously defined cluster. The connector name must match the one defined in the 
    Connector Manifest, and the cluster name must match with the previously defined in the ATTACH CLUSTER command.    
        ```
            xdsh:user>  ATTACH CONNECTOR <connector name> TO <cluster name> WITH OPTIONS {};
        ```
    
    At this point, we can start to send queries, that Crossdata execute with the connector specified..
    
        ...
            xdsh:user> CREATE CATALOG catalogTest;
        
            xdsh:user> USE catalogTest;
        
            xdsh:user> CREATE TABLE tableTest ON CLUSTER <cluster_name> (id int PRIMARY KEY, name text);
    
            xdsh:user> SELECT * FROM tableTest WITH WINDOW 2 sec;

            xdsh:user> INSERT INTO tableTest(id, name) VALUES (1, 'stratio');
        ...


## Behaviours ##
To ensure the creation of an ephemeral table the connector insert a random value. This value can be recovered together with the real values.

# License #

Licensed to STRATIO (C) under one or more contributor license agreements.
See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The STRATIO (C) licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.


